Quote 1

The nation could adopt, and strive for, a policy of full employment. Equal opportunity, both racially and sexually, can stop being the rhetoric of campaigns and platforms and become the reality of the present. Through public service employment, increased economic growth, increases in wage minimums and in guaranteeing social insurance by radically altering public assistance, every American can be guaranteed an income.

Quote 2

We will select a new Congress in 1972 as well. These for the most part must be new men and women, not the tired old faces of the past. It should be a Congress that would reject Nixon's family destruction plan, that would say "no" to more war, "no" to freezes on wages with no freezes on profits, "no" to secret government, and "no" to preventive detention and no-knock justice.

Quote 3

It must be someone who will put teeth into the demands for a decent life. Since the present President took office, we have spent billions more on war, over two million more Americans have been added to the ranks of the unemployed, 2.5 million more are on ever-mounting relief rolls, inflation has reduced our standard of living, many American cities face bankruptcy. The racist policies of public and private U.S. institutions insure that Blacks and other oppressed peoples suffer more than others, in good times and in bad.

Quote 4

It is not too soon to begin now. In fact, it is nearly too late. The process is difficult and easy at the same time.

Quote 5

Politics is not the art of the possible, as you may have been taught in high schools civics, or even the art of the compromise, as you may have learned in Poly Sci 101, but a much more serious art: the art of seeing who gets how much of what from whom. We, of course, are the who who haven't gotten any of anything from you know who. There can be no denying then that the direction Black and poor people and their allies must take in the remainder of the 1970s is toward a real and meaningful participation in a new politics. That is because it is politics that decides, in the end, what kind of life each of us will have, what kind of world we live in, what kind of futures our children will have. It is politics that sent our sons and brothers and uncles and fathers to Southeast Asia, to shoot and kill and be killed by other mothers' sons in war made by politicians; it is politics that will bring them back alive.
It is politics that decides that unemployment for Black people will remain at two and three times the national average, and it is politics that decides that we will live in a permanent depressions, and it is politics that can put money in our pockets and give us jobs or a liveable, not laughable, income now. It is politics that decides that we must live in second and third hand homes that others have discarded or in vertical prisons of concrete and class designed by some architect who lives in the suburbs. It is politics that made it impossible for so many of us to earn a living back home, and ran us into the cities to be squeezed together like sardines in a can, and it is politics that will enable us to take over the cities where we live, and turn them into the kinds of places where everyone wants to live and raise their children.

Quote 6

Like many others, I am the grandson of a slave. My grandfather was born in 1863, in Kentucky; freedom didn't come for him until the 13th Amendment was ratified in 1865. He and his mother were property, like a horse or a chair. As a young girl, she had been given away as a wedding present to a new bride, and when that bride became pregnant, her husband — that's my great-grandmother's owner and master — exercised his right to take his wife's slave as his mistress. That union produced two children, one of them my grandfather.

Quote 7

He said then:
"The pessimist from his corner looks out on the world of wickedness and sin, and blinded by all that is good or hopeful in the condition and progress of the human race, bewails the present state of affairs and predicts woeful things for the future." "In every cloud he beholds a destructive storm, in every flash of lightning an omen of evil, and in every shadow that falls across his path a lurking foe." "He forgets that the clouds also bring life and hope, that lightning purifies the atmosphere, that shadow and darkness prepare for sunshine and growth, and that hardships and adversity nerve the race, as the individual, for greater efforts and grander victories. "

'Greater efforts and grander victories.' That was the promise made by the generation born in slavery more than 140 years ago. That was the promise made by the generation that won the great world war for democracy almost six decades ago.

Quote 8

Yes plain, blunt complaint, ceaseless agitation, unfailing exposure of dishonesty and wrong -- this is the ancient unerring way to liberty, and we must follow it." These are the things we as black men must try to do. To press the matter of stopping the curtailment of our political rights; to urge Negroes to vote honestly and effectively; to push the matter of civil rights; to organize business cooperation; to build schoolhouses and increase the interest in education; to bring Negroes and labor unions into mutual understanding; to study Negro history; to attack crime among us... to do all in our power by word and by deed to increase the efficiency of our race, the enjoyment of its man-hood rights, the performance of its just duties.

Quote 9

Their less than subtle message is that including blacks and women excludes quality. The continuing disparity between black and white life chances isn't a result of black life choices; it stems from epidemic racism and an economic system dependent on class division. Abundant scholarship notwithstanding, there is no other possible explanation: not family breakdown, not lack of middle-class values, not lack of education and skills, not absence of role models.

Quote 10

Martin Luther King lost his life supporting a garbage workers' strike in Memphis; the right to decent work at decent pay remains as basic to human freedom as the right to vote. "Negroes," King said in 1961, "are almost entirely a working people. There are pitifully few Negro millionaires and few Negro employers.

Quote 11

"Especially do I believe in the Negro race; in the beauty of its genius, the sweetness of its soul, and its strength in that meekness which shall inherit this turbulent earth." "I believe in pride of race and lineage itself; in pride of self so deep as to scorn injustice to other selves; in pride of lineage so great as to despise no man's father; in pride of race so chivalrous as neither to offer bastardy to the weak nor beg wedlock of the strong, knowing that men may be brothers in Christ even though they be not brothers-in-law." "I believe in service -- humble, reverent service, from the blackening of boots to the whitening of souls, for work is heaven, idleness hell, and wages the 'well done' of the Master who summoned all them that labor and are heavy laden, making no distinctions between the Black sweating cotton-hands of Georgia and the first families of Virginia, since all distinction not based on deed is devilish and not Divine."

Quote 12

It may be a great physical segregation of the world along the color line; it may be a great economic rebirth which issues spiritual and group integrity and physical diversity. It may be utter annihilation of class and race and color barriers in one ultimate mankind, differentiated by talent, susceptibility and gift -- but any of these ends are matters of long centuries and not years. We live in years, swift, flying, transient years.

Quote 13

For too many, picking up beer cans by the side of the highway became an acceptable substitute for winning jobs for Black people in the brewery. We ought to be reminded of some words spoken by Dr. W. E. B. DuBois nearly half a century ago:
"We are American Negroes. It is beside the point to ask whether we form a real race. Biologically, we are mingled of all conceivable elements, but race is psychology, not biology, and psychologically we are a unified race with one history, one red memory, one revolt. It is not ours to argue whether we will be segregated or whether we ought to be caste. We are segregated; we are a caste. Our problem is: how far and in what way can we consciously and scientifically guide our future so as to insure our physical survival, our spiritual freedom and our social growth? If America proposed the murder of our group, its moral descent into imbecility and crime and its utter loss of manhood, self-assertion and courage, the sooner we realize this the better. By that great line of McKay, 'If we must die, let it not be like hogs.' But the alternative of not dying like hogs is not that of dying or killing like snarling dogs. It is rather conquering the world by thought and brain and plan; by expression and organized cultural ideals.

Quote 14

For some of us, being Black became a rhetorical or sartorial accomplishment. For many, social commitment began to be measured by the length of your hair, or the intricacy of your handshake. Many of the young people who some years ago marched with us militantly in the streets are now found running nude on the college grounds, attempting to prove perhaps, that all men are not created equal.

